this video is sponsored by paper like
the iPad screen protector that makes
writing or drawing on the iPad feel just
like paper if you want to learn more
click on the links in the description
down below what is up guys karma medic
here and welcome back to another dose if
you new to the channel hi my name is
Nasir and now a third year medical
student studying at King's College
London and in my life I've gone almost
completely paperless thanks to my iPad
pro it's helped me take notes at
University for all my lectures and
tutorials and things like that
and also at the hospital when I'm going
around on the ward rounds trying to take
note of important information and every
time I show or use my iPad in one of
these youtube videos I get quite a few
comments asking me what my color coding
strategy is when I take notes using the
app notability and if you guys like my
color coding strategy you can use it
yourselves or build on your own color
coding strategy using some of the things
that I talk about in this video
now for my note-taking app of choice on
the iPad pro I use an app called notes
ability and this is its little icon down
over here personally I think this is the
best note-taking app that you can have
on the iPad pro and I've already done a
video comparing it to good notes and
I'll leave a link to it somewhere over
here on screen if you guys want to check
it out so basically within notes ability
within my dividers and within my
subjects this is what typically one of
my lecture notes will look like and I
can already see the comments the first
thing you guys are gonna say is that my
notes look really messy as long as I can
read them that's the only thing that's
important and just to prove my point in
eight cells killed by phagocytosis
factors I'm killing my production also
do transfer gene activation ourselves
there you go I've proved I can read my
own writing without any problem without
further ado let's jump straight into the
color coding of my notes so generally a
set of my notes will have a title in the
top left corner and then the page will
be divided into about three columns the
left the middle and the right and the
reason that I do this is again for
increased hierarchy and organization of
the paint a very good memorization
technique for me is remembering where
the information was physically on the
page whether it was in the top left
corner in the middle or in the top right
for example now each of my columns I
read in a top-down direction starting
with the left and then the middle and
then the right the first page of colors
that notability provides has very solid
colors so they create quite a lot of
contrast between the white paper and
then the writing that you do and so I
don't really like them for that reason I
prefer to use the second page which is
these more
Hale or neutral colors now in recent
times I've gone out and made my own
custom third page which consists of even
more pale colors because I find them
easier to be on the eye for those long
studying and reading sessions I don't
get as fatigued when I'm looking at
these colors on the page now let's dive
into specifically talking about the
different colors that I use and what
they actually mean okay so starting with
the color bright pink this is the pink
over here and I always and only use it
in order to write the title of the
lecture that I'm doing the title is
always in the top left of the page and
it is numbered and that number
corresponds to a specific lecture that
you can find if you tap out and stay
within the same subject of my notes for
example that lecture we were looking at
was lecture Oh three and so here if I go
down to lecture oh three I know that
it's HIV pathogenesis the next thing
that I do is I write down all of the
lecture headings or the subtitles within
the lecture in this sort of light ish
blue color here and that's what you guys
see over here these are all the
subtitles of the lecture underneath of
the subtitle I write all of the general
information or the normal information in
this light gray color over here and the
reason that I use light gray as opposed
to a solid blue or a solid black is
again because I feel like those colors
create a lot of contrast between the
white page and then for example here
this solid blank okay so that's what I
used to write all of the general
information that you guys see over here
for example it's just all of the
information that isn't necessarily a
title or something important or anything
like that it's basically your main pen
that you use for the majority of the
writing that you do the next color that
you probably notice in my lecture notes
is this dark yellow orange color over
here which as you can see I used to make
all of my sub subheadings or lists so
generally it's used for two purposes
either at the very beginning of the
lecture for writing down general or
random information so this will usually
be something like epidemiological
information or quick facts about the
lecture that's about to happen or when
I'm making lists as you guys can see
here I have number one number two number
three and again here one two three so
it's just the color that I use whenever
there's a list that I need to learn or a
list that I need to memorize now red is
probably the most intuitive and obvious
one I use red whenever I want to
highlight a very important piece of
information and obviously red it stands
out against all the other colors on the
page it's quick
identify and you know that this
information is important information and
so that way if I'm ever opening these
notes a couple of months after I've
written them I can immediately identify
what I think is important information
because it's written in red now of
course that red information isn't enough
by itself and you need the context that
I've written in the light gray color and
of course if I want even more context I
can look at what lecture number this is
and then go back one page and find the
corresponding lecture and read up even
more about it on the slides now because
this is an iPad it's very very easy to
import pictures or copy and paste
pictures from the lecture slides so
let's say for example I wanted to copy
any of these slides over here I can
click on the Select tool highlight a
piece of information that I want copy go
back to the lecture that I was at and if
I go down to a blank space I can quickly
paste that I can now annotate as I wish
and right on and whatever you want to
come in HoN all right come in little
mango mochi balls they're my favorite
all right back to the video ok the next
two colors are dark purple and light
purple now dark purple is reserved for
pieces of information that I think are
high-yield and I think are likely to
show up on upcoming tests so for example
this information here highly active
antiretroviral therapy is a combination
of three of these drugs they're not a
cure but they control replication and
viral load this piece of information I
think is going to be very important and
so I'm gonna write it in dark purple now
light purple on the other hand is a much
less common color
let me find an example of it okay here
we go so light purple is used four
pieces of information that I have
already seen on past tests or on tests
that I've personally done and so it's a
non-negotiable fact that this piece of
information I absolutely have to know
and I have to memorize because I know
it's come up on a test which means I
know that examiner's think it's
important and so it might come up again
in the future so light purple is a very
important color and it means no this no
this no this now before I move on to the
next color I want to give a quick
shout-out to the sponsor of today's
video paper like paper like is an iPad
screen protector that makes writing or
draw
on the iPad feel just like paper and
that's something that I really enjoy
about my note-taking experience on an
iPad it's that I feel like I've had such
a natural transition from writing on
paper to writing on an electronic device
it gives me that little bit of extra
grip when I'm writing that I feel like I
need so that my pen isn't slipping all
over the place on the glass of the iPad
on top of that it helps protect my iPad
from my sweaty hands and greasy fingers
especially after I've been writing on it
for a really long time and of course
it's still a screen protector so helps
prevent damage and scratches to the
actual screen of the iPad which has
already saved me on more than one
occasion I use it every single day and
think that it's a fantastic product and
if you guys want to check out paper-like
for yourself I'll leave links in the
description down below and also in a
pinned comment anyways back to the video
okay now the next color that I use which
I really really enjoy is this light
green color over here so light green is
reserved for only writing down pieces of
information that relate to drugs or
treatment or drug management and things
like that so that way when I'm scrolling
through this lecture and I'm looking
through it I can immediately identify
any pieces of information that are
relevant to drugs so for example over
here first-line treatment is
methotrexate if that doesn't help anti
TNF alpha therapy is often given
infliximab adalimumab which is a
monoclonal antibody again I'm sure you
guys can't read that all but as long as
I can read it that's the most important
thing so this I find very useful
especially when I'm in an exam and I'm
looking at a series of names of drugs
and things like that my mind immediately
goes towards bright green colors and it
sort of helps me remember the
information from the lecture notes as
bright green has to do with drugs I
don't know it's just a helpful way for
me to further categorize information and
it works very well okay so that's my
green there's one more color I want to
talk about which is brown brown is the
color that I use if I'm ever going
through a set of notes for a second time
so when I see this brown color over here
I know that I wrote down this piece of
information on a second to read through
of going through these notes and what
this means for me is that when I wrote
down this piece of information in brown
I felt that it was important enough for
me to write down on top of all the notes
that already exist and so again it's
probably an important piece of
information but anyway because it's such
a different color and it's not seen that
often it stands out in comparison to all
the other colors and I know that it's
important and then last but not least
what I want to cover
the highlighting so these are all the
highlighters here they're again the same
colors and generally I choose a
highlighter color only based on what I
think will look best given what color is
going to be underneath it it's for
example over here this yellow and pink
doesn't really work well at all you can
barely distinguish the different colors
so I would use something a little bit
darker like this gray over here stop
beeping anyway so yeah highlighting
doesn't really have a strict method I
just choose whatever color I feel like
using at the time whatever I think will
stand out the most and make me highlight
again that this piece of information is
really important alright guys and I
think that's everything that I've gone
through now I've talked about pretty
much all of the colors that I use in my
color coding in notability when I'm
taking lecture notes on University here
in medical school I hope you guys have
enjoyed this video I hope you've learned
something new I hope you guys have
something new and taken away something
about color coding that you can
implement into your own studying and
hopefully that helps you memorize or
learn information better and helps you
do better on tests in the future if you
guys enjoyed this video please do leave
a like on it and subscribe to my channel
to see more content from me in the
future and yeah I think that's it and I
will see you in the next one Thursday
same time same place
peace